# More on Classes

[https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/returnvalue.html](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/returnvalue.html)

满足以下条件时，method 会返回值：

- completes all the statements in the method,
- reaches a return statement, or
- throws an exception (covered later),

Any method declared void doesn't return a value. It does not need to contain a return statement, but it may do so. In such a case, a return statement can be used to branch out of a control flow block and exit the method and is simply used like this:

return;

---

## covariant return type

_covariant return type_, means that the return type is allowed to vary in the same direction as the subclass.

---

## this 关键字

Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose method or constructor is being called. You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor by using this.

### Using this with a Field

以下两种方式等价：

```java
public class Point {
    public int x = 0;
    public int y = 0;

    //constructor
    public Point(int a, int b) {
        x = a;
        y = b;
    }
}
```

```java
public class Point {
    public int x = 0;
    public int y = 0;

    //constructor
    public Point(int x, int y) {
        this.x = x;
        this.y = y;
    }
}
```

### Using this with a Constructor

_显示构造函数调用 explicit constructor invocation_

```java
public class Rectangle {
    private int x, y;
    private int width, height;

    public Rectangle() {
        this(0, 0, 1, 1);
    }
    public Rectangle(int width, int height) {
        this(0, 0, width, height);
    }
    public Rectangle(int x, int y, int width, int height) {
        this.x = x;
        this.y = y;
        this.width = width;
        this.height = height;
    }
    ...
}
```

---

## Controlling Access to Members of a Class

> public, private, protected, or package-private

A class may be declared with the modifier public, in which case that class is visible to all classes everywhere. If a class has no modifier (the default, also known as package-private), it is visible only within its own package (packages are named groups of related classes — you will learn about them in a later lesson.)

- At the member level, you can also use the public modifier or no modifier (package-private) just as with top-level classes, and with the same meaning
- The private modifier specifies that the member can only be accessed in its own class.
- The protected modifier specifies that the member can only be accessed within its own package (as with package-private) and, in addition, by a subclass of its class in another package.
